[docs] Add CI/CD tutorial (#44866)
expo/expo: docs/pages/tutorial/cicd/first-workflow.mdx

---

> title: 'Hello, EAS Workflows'

Reviewer: This could be more descriptive, like "Run your first EAS Workflow"?

sidebar_title: Hello, EAS Workflows
description: Learn how to create, run, and chain jobs from scratch using EAS Workflows.
---

import { ContentSpotlight } from '~/ui/components/ContentSpotlight';
import { JobTypes } from '~/ui/components/FlowDiagram/Diagrams/JobTypes';
import { ProgressTracker } from '~/ui/components/ProgressTracker';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';

> In this chapter, we create our first EAS workflow. By the end, every push to `main` triggers a `"Hello, Workflows"` message, and we learn how to chain multiple jobs together and read the EAS dashboard to debug them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this chapter, we create our first EAS workflow. By the end, every push to `main` triggers a `"Hello, Workflows"` message, and we learn how to chain multiple jobs together and read the EAS dashboard to inspect them.
```

### Add an automatic trigger

Let's add an `on.push.branches` trigger to our existing workflow file.

- The `on` key defines which GitHub event triggers the workflow
- The `push` field defines when to trigger
- The `branches` field allows us to specify that whenever the code is pushed to the `main` branch, the workflow should run automatically

```yaml .eas/workflows/hello.yml
name: Hello

# @info #
on:
  push:
    branches: ['main'] # Fires on every push to main branch
# @end #

jobs:
  greet:
    steps:
      - run: echo "Hello, Workflows"
```

The `branches` field can include any branch name that exists in a GitHub repository. We can specify multiple branches such as `['main', 'develop', 'staging']` to trigger the workflow when the code is pushed to any of those branches.

</Step>

<Step label="2">

### Commit the change and push to GitHub

Commit the workflow file and push it to the `main` branch:

<Terminal
  cmd={[
    '$ git add .eas/workflows/hello.yml',
    '$ git commit -m "Add hello workflow"',
    '$ git push origin main',
  ]}
  cmdCopy="git add .eas/workflows/hello.yml && git commit -m 'Add hello workflow' && git push origin main"
/>

</Step>

<Step label="3">

> ### Verify the automatic trigger

Reviewer: Let's add a note here to remind people that in order for this to work, the project need to be in GitHub and linked (also instructions on how to check). It's weirdly easy to forget.

---
title: 'Run your first EAS Workflows job'
sidebar_title: First EAS Workflows job
description: Learn basics of EAS Workflows by creating workflow files, jobs, triggers, and chain jobs together for an Expo app.
---

import { ContentSpotlight } from '~/ui/components/ContentSpotlight';
import { JobTypes } from '~/ui/components/FlowDiagram/Diagrams/JobTypes';
import { ProgressTracker } from '~/ui/components/ProgressTracker';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';

> In this chapter, we will create our first EAS Workflows job.

Author: **[nit]** Present tense (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`).

```suggestion
In this chapter, we create our first EAS Workflows job.
```

## Learning outcomes

- Create and run a custom workflow that prints a message to the EAS dashboard
- Set up an automatic trigger so every push to `main` runs the workflow
- Chain multiple jobs together so one job's output feeds the next
- Read workflow logs and job graphs in the EAS dashboard

## How workflow files work

> Workflow files are YAML files stored in our project's **.eas/workflows/** directory. Each file defines how many workflow jobs should run and what steps each job should follow.

Author: **[suggestion]** 'Each file defines how many workflow jobs should run' reads as if the file is declaring a count; what the file actually declares is the jobs themselves (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`).

```suggestion
Workflow files are YAML files stored in our project's **.eas/workflows/** directory. Each file defines the jobs to run and the steps each job follows.
```

<JobTypes />

A workflow file contains one or more jobs and an optional trigger. When it runs, EAS reads the file, provisions the environment, and executes the jobs in that environment.

## Types of jobs in EAS Workflows

EAS Workflows has two types of jobs:

- **Pre-packaged job:** This job uses the `type` field. It tells EAS which operation to run, like `build`, `submit`, or `update`. EAS then runs the pre-configured steps for that operation.
- **Custom job:** This type of job uses `steps` instead of the `type` field. We write our own commands using `run` for each step. A custom job allows us to control what happens when a workflow runs and when to run a specific command.

## Create our first workflow

Let's create our first workflow using a custom job and run it on EAS.

<Step label="1">

### Create the workflow directory

> Create the **.eas/workflows/** directory at the root of our project. EAS looks for workflow files only in this location.

Reviewer 2: Same monorepo-clarity tweak as in the introduction - "Expo project" removes the workspace-root ambiguity:

```suggestion
Create the **.eas/workflows/** directory at the root of our Expo project. EAS looks for workflow files only in this location.
```

<Terminal cmd={['$ mkdir -p .eas/workflows']} />

</Step>

<Step label="2">

### Add a hello.yml file

Inside **.eas/workflows/**, create a file named **hello.yml**. This file defines our first workflow using a single custom job. The job runs a shell command that prints `"Hello, Workflows"`:

```yaml .eas/workflows/hello.yml
name: Hello

jobs:
  greet:
    steps:
      - run: echo "Hello, Workflows" # Any shell command works here
```

The above workflow uses the following syntax:

- `name` is the workflow's name as shown on the EAS dashboard.
- `jobs` contains one or more jobs to run. Each job has a unique ID (in this case, `greet`).
- `steps` is a sequence of tasks the job executes in order. A job with `steps` but no `type` field is a custom job.
- `run` is the shell command to execute in a step. Here, it runs `echo` to print a message. Any shell command works.

</Step>

<Step label="3">

### Manually run the workflow

To run the workflow on the EAS dashboard, run the following command from a terminal window:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas workflow:run .eas/workflows/hello.yml']} />

> The `eas workflow:run` command uploads the workflow file to EAS and runs any job defined inside the file. After it runs, the EAS CLI prints a URL to the EAS dashboard where we can watch the job.

Author: **[suggestion]** Two actions joined by `and` (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`): upload, then run. They are sequential and distinct, and splitting them lets the second sentence be the natural lead-in to the dashboard URL behavior described next.

```suggestion
The `eas workflow:run` command uploads the workflow file to EAS. It then runs any job defined inside the file and the EAS CLI prints a URL to the EAS dashboard where we can watch the job.
```

</Step>

<Step label="4">

### View the job logs

Open the URL from the previous step in a browser window. On the workflow page, we can see the `greet` job and its status. Once the job completes, expand the step output to see the logged message: `Hello, Workflows`.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="EAS Workflows dashboard showing expanded job logs for a Hello World workflow run."
  src="/static/images/tutorial/cicd/eas-workflows-job-logs-dashboard.png"
  className="max-w-160"
/>

> The EAS dashboard is where we view and debug any workflow job. The **Workflow graph** shows how our job was triggered and the job's unique ID.

Author: **[suggestion]** Passive voice (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`).

```suggestion
The EAS dashboard is where we view and debug any workflow job. The **Workflow graph** shows what triggered our job and the job's unique ID.
```

Switch to the **Workflow file** tab. This is the workflow file we wrote in Step 2, preserved with the run.

> > **info** **Tip:** To view all of our project's workflows or filter them by status or workflow type, we can go to the [Workflows page](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/projects/[project]/workflows) and view the list.

Reviewer 2: This tip can be tighter - "we can go to... and view the list" is the wordy part:

```suggestion
> **info** **Tip:** You can view all your project's workflows and filter them by status in the [Workflows page](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/projects/[project]/workflows).
```

Author: Applied the trim. Used imperative mood to stay in the tutorial's voice and kept the "or type" filter mention since the dashboard supports it.

</Step>

## Automatically run a workflow

> Running `eas workflow:run` from the terminal works for a one-off, but most teams want workflows that fire automatically on GitHub events. Automatic triggers mean no one has to remember to run a workflow and the workflow's configuration lives in the repository alongside the code it builds.

Author: **[suggestion]** Two independent thoughts joined by `and` (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`): the absence of manual triggering, and the configuration living in the repository. Splitting makes the second benefit (config-as-code) land as its own reason.

```suggestion
Running `eas workflow:run` from the terminal works for a one-off, but most teams want workflows that fire automatically on GitHub events. Automatic triggers mean no one has to remember to run a workflow. The workflow's configuration lives in the repository alongside the code it builds.
```

> **info** **Note:** A trigger is a rule that tells a CI/CD pipeline when to start. It defines the event (such as a code push or a pull request) that causes the pipeline to run automatically instead of requiring manual execution.

We define a trigger with the `on` key in the workflow file. EAS watches for the matching GitHub event and runs the workflow automatically.

<Step label="1">

### Add an automatic trigger

Let's add an `on.push.branches` trigger to our existing workflow file.

- The `on` key defines which GitHub event triggers the workflow
- The `push` field defines when to trigger
- The `branches` field allows us to specify that whenever the code is pushed to the `main` branch, the workflow should run automatically

```yaml .eas/workflows/hello.yml
name: Hello

# @info #
on:
  push:
    branches: ['main'] # Fires on every push to main branch
# @end #

jobs:
  greet:
    steps:
      - run: echo "Hello, Workflows"
```

> The `branches` field can include any branch name that exists in a GitHub repository. We can specify multiple branches such as `['main', 'develop', 'staging']` to trigger the workflow when the code is pushed to any of those branches.

Author: **[suggestion]** Passive voice (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`).

```suggestion
The `branches` field can include any branch name that exists in a GitHub repository. We can specify multiple branches such as `['main', 'develop', 'staging']` to trigger the workflow when we push to any of those branches.
```

</Step>

<Step label="2">

### Commit the change and push to GitHub

Commit the workflow file and push it to the `main` branch:

<Terminal
  cmd={[
    '$ git add .eas/workflows/hello.yml',
    '$ git commit -m "Add hello workflow"',
    '$ git push origin main',
  ]}
  cmdCopy="git add .eas/workflows/hello.yml && git commit -m 'Add hello workflow' && git push origin main"
/>

</Step>

<Step label="3">

### Verify the automatic trigger

> **info** **Tip:** This step depends on our local Expo project being pushed to GitHub and the GitHub repository being connected to EAS. To confirm: run `git remote -v` to verify the local repo points to a GitHub URL and open the project's [GitHub settings on EAS](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/projects/[projectName]/github) to check that a repository is connected.

> Let's open our project's [Workflow page](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/projects/[project]/workflows) on the EAS dashboard to see the new job.

Author: **[nit]** Inconsistent link text — line 103 uses '[Workflows page]' (plural), this line uses '[Workflow page]' (singular). The dashboard URL and the glossary's always-plural rule both say plural (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#glossary-and-product-names`).

```suggestion
Let's open our project's [Workflows page](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/projects/[project]/workflows) on the EAS dashboard to see the new job.
```

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="EAS Workflows dashboard showing a workflow run automatically triggered by a push to the GitHub repository's main branch."
  src="/static/images/tutorial/cicd/eas-workflows-github-triggered-run.png"
  className="max-w-160"
/>

In the EAS dashboard, notice that the **Workflow graph** tab shows the commit message and branch reference for this push. In the status under the workflow header, the **Trigger** and **Triggered by** reflect the same information.

</Step>

## Other trigger types

> Other trigger types we will use later in this tutorial:

Author: **[nit]** Present tense (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`).

```suggestion
Other trigger types we use later in this tutorial:
```

- `on.pull_request`: Runs when a pull request opens or updates against a matching branch
- `on.push` with `tags`: Runs when a matching tag pattern is pushed to the GitHub repository
- `on.pull_request_labeled`: Runs when a specific label gets added to a pull request

## Chain jobs together

> So far, we have implemented a single job in our workflow file. A workflow file can have multiple jobs and a job's input can depend on the output of the previous job. Let's chain multiple jobs together in a workflow file.

Author: **[suggestion]** Two independent clauses joined by `and` (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`). The first establishes that workflows can hold multiple jobs; the second introduces job-to-job data flow. They read more clearly as two sentences.

```suggestion
So far, we have implemented a single job in our workflow file. A workflow file can have multiple jobs. A job's input can depend on the output of the previous job. Let's chain multiple jobs together in a workflow file.
```

<Step label="1">

### Update hello.yml

Let's update the **hello.yml** file to add a custom job and a pre-packaged job. This pre-packaged job is called [`doc`](/eas/workflows/pre-packaged-jobs/#doc) and it renders Markdown on the EAS dashboard:

```yaml .eas/workflows/hello.yml

> name: Hello
> 
> jobs:
>   greet:
>     outputs:
>       greeting: ${{ steps.set_greeting.outputs.greeting }}
>     steps:
>       - id: set_greeting
>         run: set-output greeting "Hello from EAS Workflows"
>   show_info:
>     needs: [greet]
>     type: doc
>     params:
>       md: |
>         # Workflow Output
>         **${{ needs.greet.outputs.greeting }}**

Reviewer 2: Suggest inline comments on the three concepts this example introduces (`outputs`, `needs`, `type: doc`) - same style as the first hello.yml's annotations. No comments inside the `md: |` block since a `#` there is literal markdown, not a YAML comment:

```suggestion
name: Hello

jobs:
  greet:
    outputs:
      greeting: ${{ steps.set_greeting.outputs.greeting }} # Expose the step output at the job level
    steps:
      - id: set_greeting
        run: set-output greeting "Hello from EAS Workflows"
  show_info:
    needs: [greet] # Wait for greet to finish, then read its outputs
    type: doc # Pre-packaged job that renders Markdown on the dashboard
    params:
      md: |
        # Workflow Output
        **${{ needs.greet.outputs.greeting }}**
```

Author: Applied all three inline comments, and additionally wrapped the commented lines in highlight annotations so the new concepts pop visually in the rendered block.

```

The above workflow file does the following:

- Defines a `greet` job, which is a custom job. It uses the [`set-output`](/eas/workflows/syntax/#set-output) shell function to set a value called `greeting`. The `outputs` field at the job level exposes the step output so other jobs can reference it.
- Defines a `show_info` job which uses `needs: [greet]` to wait for the `greet` job to complete and access its output. Then, it uses the pre-packaged `doc` job type to render a Markdown document in the EAS dashboard. The Markdown content includes the value of `greeting` set in the previous job.

> > **info** **Tip:** In EAS Workflows, the `needs` field is a list of job IDs where a previous job must complete successfully before the current job that uses `needs` can start. If a job in the `needs` list fails, the dependent job is skipped.

Reviewer 2: The chapter teaches `needs` (how jobs wait) but never states that jobs run in parallel by default - so the execution model is only half-explained until chapter 2. Framing `needs` as the exception to the parallel default completes it (and tightens the run-on):

```suggestion
> **info** **Tip:** In EAS Workflows, jobs run in parallel by default. The `needs` field is what makes a job wait: it lists the job IDs that must complete successfully before the job using `needs` can start. If a job in the `needs` list fails, the dependent job is skipped.
```

</Step>

<Step label="2">

### Run the chained workflow

Run the following command from a terminal window to see the chained jobs in action:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas workflow:run .eas/workflows/hello.yml']} />

> Open the EAS dashboard link shared by the EAS CLI. Under **Logs**, notice that the `greet` job runs first and once it completes, the `show_info` job runs and renders the Markdown content with the output from the previous job.

Author: **[suggestion]** Second sentence is ~32 words; consider splitting at the `and once it completes` boundary (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`).

```suggestion
Open the EAS dashboard link from the EAS CLI. Under **Logs**, notice that the `greet` job runs first. Once it completes, the `show_info` job runs and renders the Markdown content using the output from the previous job.
```

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="EAS Workflows dashboard showing two chained jobs running sequentially after the first job completes."
  src="/static/images/tutorial/cicd/eas-workflows-chained-jobs.png"
  className="max-w-160"
/>

</Step>

## Clean up

> After this chapter, delete the **hello.yml** file because we are not going to use it in the next chapters. If we prefer to keep it, remove the `on.push` trigger so it does not fire on every push to `main`.

Author: **[nit]** Present tense; `going to use` is the future construction (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`).

```suggestion
After this chapter, delete the **hello.yml** file because we do not use it in the next chapters. If we prefer to keep it, remove the `on.push` trigger so it does not fire on every push to `main`.
```
